listen so this movie's release had more
twists and turns and gerard butler took
rush into shelter
at first this apocalyptic flick wanted
to be the summer highlight of the
pandemic
only didn't swerve over to talks about
it going to prime or hbo
then it was like psych it's august
actually it's fall
nope it's a mystery then they learned
about streaming and rolled it out in
december 2020 to rent for 48 hours at
19.99 a pop which
you know if you're writing gerard some
ps i love yous then sure
personally i'd say 19.99 to own is
obviously way better because if this was
playing in adobe theater
i think it would have just cracked being
a junior price for me because of the way
that it's mixed
i think the visual effects are good
enough and while it's not a fantastic
story it is a decent family tale of
survival that scratches that disaster
movie
itch let me explain so the movie follows
the garrity family who are living your
typical american life in this big old
house
with a really big emphasis throughout on
how gerard is just you know your average
family man
john garrity is a mortal human being he
represents us and that's what i love
about jerry is
jerry has a vulnerability and a
sensitivity to him as a
as a man that i think is part of our own
masculinity
and he can bring that to the um to the
table in a way where
he's not afraid to show a character that
is dealing with real flaws
he's a skyscraper architect who
previously cheated on his wife but
before they can reconcile their problems
they have to deal with comic clark
that's on its way down and the news is
covering all this then the differences
between asteroids and comets like
they're mr herzog
talking about how one moves faster than
the other as they're building up the
anticipation
and yet as we've seen in our own natural
disasters everyone's always going to be
more focused on stocks falling over
anything else
in other news wall street's still really
my latest job homework
now a big part of the movie is the idea
of a nationwide lottery that chooses
citizens by sending them a presidential
alert to their phones and
since john garrity has a job in
structural engineering and the most
boring name in america
him and his family get chosen and are
notified in the middle of hosting the
entire block
now obviously karen's in the apocalypse
and pre are gonna demand you to make
room for their kids but like
personally i i would have just hopped in
my car and tailed them and now they're
grounded all non-military flights i mean
what do we do
i don't even know if the shelter
relocation thing is real
he says while he has the addie booted up
on waze now butler's been in geostorm
you know the man has seen london fall
literally in front of him but this comet
lantern just like that
part of florida is gone they've got
citizens disappearing faster than the
dinosaurs when they're looking for
shelter
you realize that the real impact of this
explosion it would have just
obliterated the guarantees into rarities
it's a chunk of rock rocks don't explode
yeah tell that to the dinosaurs now as
this video gets closer to spoilers they
also do get closer to the shelters which
according to them are based off
real-life ones as they confirmed do you
know
if bunkers like the ones featured in the
movie actually exist
yes there's even a whole dock on youtube
about how they created these shelters in
greenland way back in the day
so the movie is called greenland because
that's where they're trying to get to
well the u.s government have built quite
a few nuclear bunkers there
40 50 years ago that have been in disuse
and that's where these wristbands come
in that hold their entire identity the
director even talked about the process
of picking those people and who would
qualify stating that it all comes from
the data the government has been
collecting
on us in order to see who's most worthy
of being saved
so yeah no wonder this movie got delayed
as they hustle to get into the bunkers
in order to live
they forget the insulin that helps their
kid live which is perfect because you
know i paid for another 90 minutes of
this movie
that said it does tie back into how the
government you know qualifies you as
worthy since in the film
they deem it an heir that they even got
the notification and they just decide to
not count them because
the ugly truth is equality is out the
window during an apocalypse
an even uglier thing they could have
covered in the movie is how many times
in real life
officials don't even bother to notify
people and instead
leave before the going gets tough you
know we've seen tsunami reports where
those responsible to
give out warnings and provide shelter
they just dipped
to our own government who has like their
own group chat in case of emergencies
and they don't want to notify us so
truth is when things go south you know
they'll be on the first cruise to cancun
if they could
what they do cover though is how crazy
citizens will go
the fabric of society just falls apart
and gerard finds himself in a den of
thieves
and it's this part of the movie when the
family is split do you see how
drastically different both of these
characters are written
john's a law-abiding citizen who's able
to maneuver his way through all the
chaos
and even at one point meets king batu
shout out to him for continuously moving
up in these movies but um
look i think the man has had more
dialogue in some vines than he did here
but
hey through all the variety he's the one
who helps mr garrity meanwhile everyone
is looting
and somehow alison and her kid are able
to find insulin like
she needs a ride so at a certain point
she just jumps into a stranger's car and
you're just staring at her like
ma'am everyone knows about these
bracelets it's like a really big deal
as all the chaos is going down and
allison just decides to flash hers like
like ma'am what are you doing she just
tells them all the personal info
in the midst of all this chaos and this
man's like okay
when i say that this was the most
infuriating scene in the entire movie
and it just ruins her character
look i mean it they have her do
absolutely nothing to stop them from
taking her kid
even when she has the advantage inside
the car they really had this lady
running that six minute mile in the
beginning
for for what like they just leave her
standing in the highway longer than the
kids from good boys
now the script comes from writer chris
sparling who previously did buried which
i personally liked and i know that the
drama side of the disaster movie is what
he really
wanted to focus on even saying he was
inspired by 2012's the impossible which
that's the movie i'd recommend that's a
movie that knows how to hit you in the
fields
especially in the second half you know
but it's interesting to note that at one
point
neil blomkamp was rumored to direct
greenland with uh chris evans to start
and
i do wonder how different it would have
been if if we would have had that crew
instead
but director rick roman wall does know
how to deliver on the action considering
his background as a stuntman
and as a director he's kept his core
crew from moving to movie even having
worked with butler
in the past in the present and or even
set for the future
with three more has fallen movies in the
works so while i wish the more
ambiguities and the drama
you know hit a little bit more if the
characters were more fleshed out
at least the dolby mix and the bass made
me feel something on my butt when the
script couldn't with my heart
in the end you know they reunite through
a series of horizontal events and
by having good samaritans like holden
holding on and doing the opposite of
what family man garrity did in the
beginning of the movie
how much do you weigh uh 180 185 come on
rule 5 maybe 210. by the end the title
comes to fruition as they eventually do
reach those greenland arcs and
that's all thanks to john's superpower
which is his heart
and you know his ability to also not
have to shave for nine months but
overall i do find it to be a decent
action flick that dabbles in the family
drama
and i think can keep yours entertained
for about two hours and it just
continues butler's streak of serving up
disaster flicks
with his necks shining the light on
solar flares and now he survives one of
those two
in the meantime here's hoping you know
what gerardo willis before we reach our
armageddon thank you guys for checking
out this video i'm curious to know your
thoughts down below in the comment
section what you thought about
this movie or any others i'm curious
your thoughts on the 1999 rating you
know we've had some discussions
especially over on the live streams
about
if that would even be considered a
rented because it's like twice a ticket
but at the same time you can watch it at
home
but at the same time i've seen people
you know they can watch a movie in the
comfort of their own home and they still
would rather go to a theater and pay
more so i personally don't think the
theater experience is going to go
anywhere
especially with a movie like this you
know not everybody some people may have
a really big tv at home
but you don't got that dobby audio
system because
your neighbors would probably kick you
out of the town but other than that
occasionally your thoughts
you know some other recommendations if
you're fans of these types of movies you
know the impossible was brought up by
the writer and
that i would highly recommend that one
um the writer also had credited some
inspiration to
uh children of men in a quiet place
again
other really great movies better than
this one but i throw japan syncs into
the mix uh
a netflix adaptation uh that i thought
was pretty decent
i really like how they adapted the story
to cover technology and whether you
trusted or not during a crisis so
there's that one as well but i'm curious
to know any other picks that you may
have
um another thing to know during the
research that i was doing for greenland
it's interesting to see that the
previous president was gonna buy
greenland
i don't even i don't even know that was
an option but um yeah the more you know
other than that occasionally your
thoughts on this on any other movies
what you want to see us cover next and
until next time don't forget to comment
like and subscribe
and i'll save you a spot in our bunker